Firebolt connector docs (#426)
estuary/flow: site/docs/reference/Connectors/materialization-connectors/Firebolt.md

# Firebolt

This Flow connector materializes [delta updates](../../../concepts/materialization.md#delta-updates) of Flow collections into Firebolt `FACT` or `DIMENSION` tables.

> To interface between Flow and Firebolt, the connector creates an _external table_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interface between Flow and Firebolt, the connector creates a Firebolt _external table_:
```

> a virtual table in an S3 bucket used as a staging area.

Reviewer: I would reword this to be
```suggestion
a table connected to an S3 bucket, acting as a SQL interface to JSON documents stored in the S3 bucket. (See [Working with external tables](https://docs.firebolt.io/loading-data/working-with-external-tables.html))
```

Since the table itself is in Firebolt, but it acts as a SQL interface on over the JSON documents there.

[`ghcr.io/estuary/materialize-firebolt:dev`](https://ghcr.io/estuary/materialize-firebolt:dev) provides the latest connector image. You can also follow the link in your browser to see past image versions.

## Prerequisites

To use this connector, you'll need:

* A Firebolt database with at least one [engine](https://docs.firebolt.io/working-with-engines/working-with-engines.html)

> * An S3 bucket in which to stage the external table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An S3 bucket where the JSON documents will be stored before being inserted to the main Firebolt table (see Firebolt's [Loading data](https://docs.firebolt.io/loading-data/loading-data.html))
```

* At least one Flow [collection](../../../concepts/collections.md)

:::tip
 If you haven't yet captured your data from its external source,
 start at the beginning of the [guide to create a dataflow](../../../guides/create-dataflow.md).
 You'll be referred back to this connector-specific documentation at the appropriate steps.
:::

## Configuration

To use this connector, begin with data in one or more Flow collections.
Use the below properties to configure a Firebolt materialization, which will direct Flow data to your desired Firebolt tables via an external table.

### Properties

#### Endpoint

| Property | Title | Description | Type | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `/aws_key_id` | AWS Key ID | AWS Key ID for accessing the S3 bucket. | string |  |
| `/aws_region` | AWS Region | AWS Region the bucket is in. | string |  |
| `/aws_secret_key` | AWS Secret Key | AWS Secret Key for accessing the S3 bucket. | string |  |
| **`/database`** | Database | Name of the Firebolt database. | string | Required |

> | **`/engine_url`** | Engine URL | Engine URL of the Firebolt database, in the format: `<engine-name>.<organization>.<region>.app.firebolt.io`. | string | Required |

Reviewer: Did the title and description end up being auto-generated for Firebolt or were they still missing?

Author: They were auto-generated! Just tweaked a couple small things for formatting

|---|---|---|---|---|
| **`/table`** | Table | Name of the Firebolt table to store materialized results in. The external table will be named after this table with an `_external` suffix. | string | Required |
| **`/table_type`** | Table Type | Type of the Firebolt table to store materialized results in. See the [Firebolt docs](https://docs.firebolt.io/working-with-tables.html) for more details. | string | Required |

### Sample

```yaml
materializations:
  ${tenant}/${mat_name}:
	  endpoint:
        connector:
          config:
            database: my-db
            engine_url: my-db-my-engine-name.my-organization.us-east-1.app.firebolt.io
            password: secret
            # For public S3 buckets, only the bucket name is required
            s3_bucket: my-bucket
            username: firebolt-user
          # Path to the latest version of the connector, provided as a Docker image
          image: ghcr.io/estuary/materialize-firebolt:dev
	# If you have multiple collections you need to materialize, add a binding for each one
    # to ensure complete data flow-through
    bindings:
      - resource:
          table: table-name

>           table_type: FACT

Reviewer: I actually think the code I wrote currently is case-sensitive lowercase and might not work with uppercase, might be worth changing that to be case-insensitive but just in case let's keep it lowercase for now:

```suggestion
          table_type: fact
```

Author: Got it, thanks, making that change. I assumed uppercase because Firebolt's docs refer to it in uppercase consistently, so I agreed it could be helpful to make it case-insensitive at some point.
